Dear PC chairs,

I still have some confusions about the final decision of paper-1142: "R-GAN: Exploring Human-like Way for Reasonable Text-to-Image Synthesis via Generative Adversarial Networks", and I hope you can help me make a final decision based on the following analyses. Reviewer #2 gave this paper an Oral recommendation, but his/her suggestions are a bit simplistic as he/she thinks this paper has no drawbacks at all. Reviewer #4 gave this paper a Poster Recommendation, but his/her reasons are not very reasonable and sufficient. Reviewer #3 gave this paper a Weak Reject recommendation, and I agree with his/her ideas, especially the limited novelty from the introduction part. After my comprehensive consideration and careful paper reading, I decide to reject this paper as the quality is below the requirements of a regular MM paper, and the reasons of mine and Reviewer #3's reasons have some overlap. At that time, I am confident about my decision, and submit the final decision in the system. However, after the initial TPC Meeting has ended, the Reviewer #3 changes his/her final decision as Poster. I read the paper again, and still hesitate about making the final recommendation for this paper. Therefore, I hope you can help me make a final decision on this work.

This paper proposes a "R-GAN" to solve the problem of text-to-image task, especially a "Semantic Shape Map Generation" and a "Shape Knowledge Base" to make the generated graphs more real. To begin with, I summarize the opinions of the reviewers as follows: 1) The reviewer #2 points out that this paper is deserved to be selected as oral since this paper has no obvious disadvantages. However, I think this reviewer's idea is not very reasonable and sufficient. For example, the organizations of many paragraphs in this paper are confusing and there are many typos in this paper. 2) The reviewer #3 gives a weak reject at the beginning since he/she points out that from the paper's introduction, the readers will find this paper's novelty is limited. Firstly, reviewer #3 points out that their paper's main idea is very similar to paper "Inferring Semantic Layout for Hierarchical Text-to-Image Synthesis". I totally agree with this idea, and this paper should adjust the writing of the introduction that they should point out their differences of their main ideas between their work and aforementioned work. However, in their rebuttal, they just admit that they share the similar architecture with the aforementioned paper, and the idea of multi-step is the same to that work. Although they have made some improvements in each part of the architecture, their novelty is still limited. Secondly, their clarification of their novelty compared to the aforementioned paper should be highlighted in their introduction section. They have to point our their differences in their introduction section, such as "we have made some improvements over paper xxx since their methods have some disadvantages xxx". 3) The Reviewer #4 gives the poster to this work although he/she finds that the paper's novelty is somewhat novel or somewhat incremental. The most confusing opinion is the paper is well written and organized since I have difficulty reading many sentences smoothly and there are many typos here. To sum up, I think many reviewers didn't give sufficient and reasonable analyses of this paper.

My reasons of initial rejection decision are similar to the Reviewer #3. 1) Their novelty is still limited as the hierarchical architecture and the idea of this multi-step architecture is very similar to the aforementioned paper in their introduction section. Their main contribution is claimed as "Our approach imitates the drawing process of human that is usually hard to finish in one step, and decomposes the text-to-image generation into a multi-step task", and this idea is indeed duplicated. 2) The clarification of their work's novelty has to be improved. Therefore, this paper has to give more comparisons with "Inferring Semantic Layout for Hierarchical Text-to-Image Synthesis" in their introduction part. 3) There are many typos and disorganized paragraphs. The English needs to be improved in many paragraphs and sentences. 4) From the technical perspective, the Reviewer #3 points out that they don't try to implement the Bert-based models for this work. I agree with his/her suggestion. Since the authors propose a 'monolithic-structural representation' to enhance the performance as one of their contributions, why don't they implement the better Bert-based textual representation in their work? They even use CLIP to represent the images.

However, this paper still have some interesting improvements here which catch my attention. If we consider to accept this paper, the main reasons are summarized as follows: 1) They actually make some improvements compared to previous work. They propose a coarse-to-fine shape generator based on shape knowledge base, and this idea is interesting. Furthermore, they design a multi-modal spatially-adaptive geometry-aware generator which seems reasonable. 2) From the aspect of encouraging fresh researchers' work and promoting the diversity of the whole MM community, we still can consider to publish this work. However, if we consider to accept this work, the authors have to make great changes, such as writing and experiments, since their current paper's quality is below the requirements of a regular MM paper. 

These are my opinions and analyses of this work. I wish the final decision of this paper can be decided with your help.

Best Regards,

